docs/plugins.rst, before:

.. _plugins:

Plugins
=======

One of the most useful aspects of the Girder platform is its ability to be extended in
almost any way by custom plugins. Developers looking for information on writing
their own plugins should see the :ref:`Plugin Development <plugindevelopment>` section. Below is
a listing and brief documentation of some of Girder's standard plugins that come
pre-packaged with the application.


.. _jobsplugin:

Jobs
-----------

The jobs plugin is useful for representing long-running (usually asynchronous) jobs
in the Girder data model. Since the notion of tracking batch jobs is so common to
many applications of Girder, this plugin is very generic and is meant to be an
upstream dependency of more specialized plugins that actually create and execute
the batch jobs.

The job resource that is the primary data type exposed by this plugin has many
common and useful fields, including:

- ``title``: The name that will be displayed in the job management console.
- ``type``: The type identifier for the job, used by downstream plugins opaquely.
- ``args``: Ordered arguments of the job (a list).
- ``kwargs``: Keyword arguments of the job (a dictionary).
- ``created``: Timestamp when the job was created
- ``progress``: Progress information about the job's execution.
- ``status``: The state of the job, e.g. Inactive, Running, Success.
- ``log``: Log output from this job's execution.
- ``handler``: An opaque value used by downstream plugins to identify what should
  handle this job.
- ``meta``: Any additional information about the job should be stored here by
  downstream plugins.

Jobs should be created with the ``createJob`` method of the job model. Downstream
plugins that are in charge of actually scheduling a job for execution should then
call ``scheduleJob``, which triggers the ``jobs.schedule`` event with the job
document as the event info.

The jobs plugin contains several built-in status codes within the
``girder.plugins.jobs.constants.JobStatus`` namespace. These codes represent
various states a job can be in, which are:

- INACTIVE (0)
- QUEUED (1)
- RUNNING (2)
- SUCCESS (3)
- ERROR (4)
- CANCELED (5)

Downstream plugins that wish to expose their own custom job statuses must hook
into the ``jobs.status.validate`` event for any new valid status value, which by convention
must be integer values. To validate a status code, the default must be prevented
on the event, and the handler must add a ``True`` response to the event. For example, a
downstream plugin with a custom job status with the value *1234* would add the following hook:

.. code-block:: python

    from girder import events

    def validateJobStatus(event):
        if event.info == 1234:
            event.preventDefault().addResponse(True)

    def load(info):
        events.bind('jobs.status.validate', 'my_plugin', validateJobStatus):


Geospatial
----------

The geospatial plugin enables the storage and querying of `GeoJSON <http://geojson.org>`__
formatted geospatial data. It uses the underlying MongoDB support of geospatial
indexes and query operators to create an API for the querying of items that
either intersect a GeoJSON point, line, or polygon; are in proximity to a
GeoJSON point; or are entirely within a GeoJSON polygon or circular region. In
addition, new items may be created from GeoJSON features or feature collections.
GeoJSON properties of the features are added to the created items as metadata.

The plugin requires the `geojson <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/geojson/>`__
Python package, which may be installed using **pip**: ::

    pip install -e .[geospatial]

Once the package is installed, the plugin may be enabled via the admin console.


Google Analytics
----------------

The Google Analytics plugin enables the use of Google Analytics to track
page views with the Girder one-page application. It is primarily a client-side
plugin with the tracking ID stored in the database. Each routing change will
trigger a page view event and the hierarchy widget has special handling (though
it does not technically trigger routing events for hierarchy navigation).

To use this plugin, simply copy your tracking ID from Google Analytics into the
plugin configuration page.


Homepage
--------

The Homepage plugin allows the default Girder front page to be replaced by
content written in [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)
format. After enabling this plugin, visit the plugin configuration page
to edit and preview the Markdown.


Auto Join
---------

The Auto Join plugin allows you to define rules to automatically assign new
users to groups based on their email address domain. Typically, this is used in
conjunction with email verification.

When a new user registers, each auto join rule is checked to see if the user's
email address contains the rule pattern as a substring (case insensitive).

If there is a match, the user is added to the group with the specified access
level.


Metadata Extractor
------------------

The metadata extractor plugin enables the extraction of metadata from uploaded
files such as archives, images, and videos. It may be used as either a
server-side plugin that extracts metadata on the server when a file is added
to a filesystem asset store local to the server or as a remote client that
extracts metadata from a file on a filesystem local to the client that is then
sent to the server using the Girder Python client.

The server-side plugin requires several `Hachoir <https://bitbucket.org/haypo/hachoir/wiki/Home>`_
Python packages to parse files and extract metadata from them. These packages
may be installed using **pip** as follows: ::

    pip install -e .[metadata_extractor]

Once the packages are installed, the plugin may be enabled via the admin
console on the server.

In this example, we use the girder :doc:`python client <python-client>` to
interact with the plugin's python API.
Assuming ``girder_client.py`` and ``metadata_extractor.py`` are located in
the module path, the following code fragment will extract metadata from a file
located at ``path`` on the remote filesystem that has been uploaded to
``itemId`` on the server: ::

    from girder_client import GirderClient
    from metadata_extractor import ClientMetadataExtractor

    client = GirderClient(host='localhost', port=8080)
    client.authenticate(login, password)

    extractor = ClientMetadataExtractor(client, path, itemId)
    extractor.extractMetadata()

The user authenticating with ``login`` and ``password`` must have ``WRITE``
access to the file located at ``itemId`` on the server.


OAuth Login
-----------

This plugin allows users to log in using OAuth against a set of supported providers,
rather than storing their credentials in the Girder instance. Specific instructions
for each provider can be found below.

Google
******

On the plugin configuration page, you must enter a **Client ID** and **Client secret**.
Those values can be created in the Google Developer Console, in the **APIS & AUTH** >
**Credentials** section. When you create a new Client ID, you must enter the
``AUTHORIZED_JAVASCRIPT_ORIGINS`` and ``AUTHORIZED_REDIRECT_URI`` fields. These *must*
point back to your Girder instance. For example, if your Girder instance is hosted
at ``https://my.girder.com``, then you should specify the following values: ::

    AUTHORIZED_JAVASCRIPT_ORIGINS: https://my.girder.com
    AUTHORIZED_REDIRECT_URI: https://my.girder.com/api/v1/oauth/google/callback

After successfully creating the Client ID, copy and paste the client ID and client
secret values into the plugin's configuration page, and hit **Save**. Users should
then be able to log in with their Google account when they click the log in page
and select the option to log in with Google.


Curation
--------

This plugin adds curation functionality to Girder, allowing content to be
assembled and approved prior to publication. Admin users can activate curation
for any folder, and users who are then granted permission can compose content
under that folder. The users can request publication of the content when it is
ready, which admins may approve or reject. The plugin provides a UI along with
workflow management, notification, and permission support for these actions.

The standard curation workflow works as follows, with any operations affecting
privacy or permissions being applied to the folder and all of its descendent
folders.

- Site admins can enable curation for any folder, which changes the folder to
  Private.
- Users with write access can populate the folder with data.
- When ready, a user can request approval from the admin. The folder becomes
  read-only at this point for any user or group with write access, to avoid
  further changes being made while the admin is reviewing.
- The admin can approve or reject the folder contents.
- If approved, the folder becomes Public.
- If rejected, the folder becomes writeable again by any user or group with read
  access, enabling users to make changes and resubmit for approval.

The curation dialog is accessible from the Folder actions menu and shows the
following information.

- Whether curation is enabled or disabled for the folder.
- The current curation status: construction, requested, or approved.
- A timeline of status changes, who performed them and when.
- Context-dependent action buttons to perform state transitions.


Provenance Tracker
------------------

The provenance tracker plugin logs changes to items and to any other resources
that have been configured in the plugin settings.  Each change record includes
a version number, the old and new values of any changed information, the ID of
the user that made the change, the current date and time, and the type of
change that occurred.

API
***

Each resource that has provenance tracking has a rest endpoint of the form
``(resource)/{id}/provenance``.  For instance, item metadata is accessible at
``item/{id}/provenance``.  Without any other parameter, the most recent change
is reported.

The ``version`` parameter can be used to get any or all provenance information
for a resource.  Every provenance record has a version number.  For each
resource, these versions start at 1.  If a positive number is specified for
``version``, the provenance record with the matching version is returned.  If a
negative number is specified, the index is relative to the end of the list of
provenance records.  That is, -1 is the most recent change, -2 the second most
recent, etc.  A ``version`` of ``all`` returns a list of all provenance records
for the resource.

All provenance records include ``version``, ``eventType`` (see below), and
``eventTime``.  If the user who authorized the action is known, their ID is
stored in ``eventUser``.

Provenance event types include:

- ``creation``: the resource was created.

- ``unknownHistory``: the resource was created when the provenance plugin was
  disabled.  Prior to this time, there is no provenance information.

- ``update``: data, metadata, or plugin-related data has changed for the
  resource.  The old values and new values of the data are recorded.  The
  ``old``  parameter contains any value that was changed (the value prior to
  the change) or has been deleted.  The ``new`` parameter contains any value
  that was changed or has been added.

- ``copy``: the resource was copied.  The original resource's provenance is
  copied to the new record, and the ``originalId`` indicates which record was
  used.

For item records, when a file belonging to that item is added, removed, or
updated, the provenance is updated with that change.  This provenance includes
a ``file`` list with the changed file(s).  Each entry in this list includes a
``fileId`` for the associated file and one of these event types:

- ``fileAdded``: a file was added to the item.  The ``new`` parameter has a
  summary of the file information, including its assetstore ID and value used
  to reference it within that assetstore.

- ``fileUpdate``: a file's name or other data has changed, or the contents of
  the file were replaced.  The ``new`` and ``old`` parameters contain the data
  values that were modified, deleted, or added.

- ``fileRemoved``: a file was removed from the item.  The ``old`` parameter has
  a summary of the file information.  If this was the only item using this file
  data, the file is removed from the assetstore.

Gravatar Portraits
------------------

This lightweight plugin makes all users' Gravatar image URLs available for use
in clients. When enabled, user documents sent through the REST API will contain
a new field ``gravatar_baseUrl`` if the value has been computed. If that field
is not set on the user document, instead use the URL ``/user/:id/gravatar`` under
the Girder API, which will compute and store the correct Gravatar URL, and then
redirect to it. The next time that user document is sent over the REST API,
it should contain the computed ``gravatar_baseUrl`` field.

Javascript clients
******************

The Gravatar plugin's javascript code extends the Girder web client's ``girder.models.UserModel``
by adding the ``getGravatarUrl(size)`` method that adheres to the above behavior
internally. You can use it on any user model with the ``_id`` field set, as in the following example:

.. code-block:: javascript

    if (girder.currentUser) {
        this.$('div.gravatar-portrait').css(
            'background-image', 'url(' +
            girder.currentUser.getGravatarUrl(36) + ')');
    }

.. note:: Gravatar images are always square; the ``size`` parameter refers to
   the side length of the desired image in pixels.

HDFS Assetstore
---------------

This plugin creates a new type of assetstore that can be used to store and
proxy data on a Hadoop Distributed Filesystem. An HDFS assetstore can be used
to import existing HDFS data hierarchies into the Girder data hierarchy, and
it can also serve as a normal assetstore that stores and manages files created
via Girder's interface.

.. note:: Deleting files that were imported from existing HDFS files does not
  delete the original file from HDFS, they will simply be unlinked in the
  Girder hierarchy.

Once you enable the plugin, site administrators will be able to create and edit
HDFS assetstores on the ``Assetstores`` page in the web client in the same way
as any other assetstore type. When creating or editing an assetstore, validation
is performed to ensure that the HDFS instance is reachable for communication, and
that the directory specified as the root path exists. If it does not exist, Girder
will attempt to create it.

Importing data
**************

Once you have created an HDFS assetstore, you will be able to import data
into it on demand if you have site administrator privileges. In the assetstore
list in the web client, you will see an **Import** button next to your HDFS
assetstores that will allow you to import files or directories (recursively)
from that HDFS instance into a Girder user, collection, or folder of your choice.

You should specify an absolute data path when importing; the root path that you
chose for your assetstore is not used in the import process. Each directory
imported will become a folder in Girder, and each file will become an item with
a single file inside. Once imported, file data is proxied through Girder when
being downloaded, but still must reside in the same location on HDFS.

Duplicates (that is, pre-existing files with the same name in the same location
in the Girder hierarchy) will be ignored if, for instance, you import the same
hierarchy into the same location twice in a row.

Remote Worker
-------------

This plugin should be enabled if you want to use the Girder worker distributed
processing engine to execute batch jobs initiated by the server. This is useful
for deploying service architectures that involve both data management and
scalable offline processing. This plugin provides utilities for sending generic tasks
to worker nodes for execution. The worker itself uses
`celery <http://www.celeryproject.org/>`_ to manage the distribution of tasks,
and builds in some useful Girder integrations on top of celery. Namely,

* **Data management**: This plugin provides python functions for building task
  input and output specs that refer to data stored on the Girder server, making
  it easy to run processing on specific folders, items, or files. The worker itself
  knows how to authenticate and download data from the server, and upload results
  back to it.
* **Job management**: This plugin depends on the :ref:`Jobs plugin <jobsplugin>`.
  Tasks are specified as python dictionaries inside of a job document and then
  scheduled via celery. The worker automatically updates the status of jobs
  as they are received and executed so that they can be monitored via the jobs
  UI in real time. If the script prints any logging information, it is automatically
  collected in the job log on the server, and if the script raises an exception,
  the job status is automatically set to an error state.

Commit message:

Document nuances of new job events

docs/plugins.rst, after:

.. _plugins:

Plugins
=======

One of the most useful aspects of the Girder platform is its ability to be extended in
almost any way by custom plugins. Developers looking for information on writing
their own plugins should see the :ref:`Plugin Development <plugindevelopment>` section. Below is
a listing and brief documentation of some of Girder's standard plugins that come
pre-packaged with the application.


.. _jobsplugin:

Jobs
-----------

The jobs plugin is useful for representing long-running (usually asynchronous) jobs
in the Girder data model. Since the notion of tracking batch jobs is so common to
many applications of Girder, this plugin is very generic and is meant to be an
upstream dependency of more specialized plugins that actually create and execute
the batch jobs.

The job resource that is the primary data type exposed by this plugin has many
common and useful fields, including:

- ``title``: The name that will be displayed in the job management console.
- ``type``: The type identifier for the job, used by downstream plugins opaquely.
- ``args``: Ordered arguments of the job (a list).
- ``kwargs``: Keyword arguments of the job (a dictionary).
- ``created``: Timestamp when the job was created
- ``progress``: Progress information about the job's execution.
- ``status``: The state of the job, e.g. Inactive, Running, Success.
- ``log``: Log output from this job's execution.
- ``handler``: An opaque value used by downstream plugins to identify what should
  handle this job.
- ``meta``: Any additional information about the job should be stored here by
  downstream plugins.

Jobs should be created with the ``createJob`` method of the job model. Downstream
plugins that are in charge of actually scheduling a job for execution should then
call ``scheduleJob``, which triggers the ``jobs.schedule`` event with the job
document as the event info.

The jobs plugin contains several built-in status codes within the
``girder.plugins.jobs.constants.JobStatus`` namespace. These codes represent
various states a job can be in, which are:

- INACTIVE (0)
- QUEUED (1)
- RUNNING (2)
- SUCCESS (3)
- ERROR (4)
- CANCELED (5)

Downstream plugins that wish to expose their own custom job statuses must hook
into the ``jobs.status.validate`` event for any new valid status value, which by convention
must be integer values. To validate a status code, the default must be prevented
on the event, and the handler must add a ``True`` response to the event. For example, a
downstream plugin with a custom job status with the value *1234* would add the following hook:

.. code-block:: python

    from girder import events

    def validateJobStatus(event):
        if event.info == 1234:
            event.preventDefault().addResponse(True)

    def load(info):
        events.bind('jobs.status.validate', 'my_plugin', validateJobStatus):

Downstream plugins that want to hook into job updates must use a different convention than normal;
for the sake of optimizing data transfer, job updates do not occur using the normal ``save`` method
of Girder models. Therefore, plugins that want to listen to job updates should bind to either
``jobs.job.update`` (which is triggered prior to persisting the updates and can be used to prevent
the update) or ``jobs.job.update.after`` (which is triggered after the update). Users of these events
should be aware that the ``log`` field of the job will not necessarily be in sync with the persisted
version, so if your event handler requires access to the job log, you should manually re-fetch the
full document in the handler.


Geospatial
----------

The geospatial plugin enables the storage and querying of `GeoJSON <http://geojson.org>`__
formatted geospatial data. It uses the underlying MongoDB support of geospatial
indexes and query operators to create an API for the querying of items that
either intersect a GeoJSON point, line, or polygon; are in proximity to a
GeoJSON point; or are entirely within a GeoJSON polygon or circular region. In
addition, new items may be created from GeoJSON features or feature collections.
GeoJSON properties of the features are added to the created items as metadata.

The plugin requires the `geojson <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/geojson/>`__
Python package, which may be installed using **pip**: ::

    pip install -e .[geospatial]

Once the package is installed, the plugin may be enabled via the admin console.


Google Analytics
----------------

The Google Analytics plugin enables the use of Google Analytics to track
page views with the Girder one-page application. It is primarily a client-side
plugin with the tracking ID stored in the database. Each routing change will
trigger a page view event and the hierarchy widget has special handling (though
it does not technically trigger routing events for hierarchy navigation).

To use this plugin, simply copy your tracking ID from Google Analytics into the
plugin configuration page.


Homepage
--------

The Homepage plugin allows the default Girder front page to be replaced by
content written in [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)
format. After enabling this plugin, visit the plugin configuration page
to edit and preview the Markdown.


Auto Join
---------

The Auto Join plugin allows you to define rules to automatically assign new
users to groups based on their email address domain. Typically, this is used in
conjunction with email verification.

When a new user registers, each auto join rule is checked to see if the user's
email address contains the rule pattern as a substring (case insensitive).

If there is a match, the user is added to the group with the specified access
level.


Metadata Extractor
------------------

The metadata extractor plugin enables the extraction of metadata from uploaded
files such as archives, images, and videos. It may be used as either a
server-side plugin that extracts metadata on the server when a file is added
to a filesystem asset store local to the server or as a remote client that
extracts metadata from a file on a filesystem local to the client that is then
sent to the server using the Girder Python client.

The server-side plugin requires several `Hachoir <https://bitbucket.org/haypo/hachoir/wiki/Home>`_
Python packages to parse files and extract metadata from them. These packages
may be installed using **pip** as follows: ::

    pip install -e .[metadata_extractor]

Once the packages are installed, the plugin may be enabled via the admin
console on the server.

In this example, we use the girder :doc:`python client <python-client>` to
interact with the plugin's python API.
Assuming ``girder_client.py`` and ``metadata_extractor.py`` are located in
the module path, the following code fragment will extract metadata from a file
located at ``path`` on the remote filesystem that has been uploaded to
``itemId`` on the server: ::

    from girder_client import GirderClient
    from metadata_extractor import ClientMetadataExtractor

    client = GirderClient(host='localhost', port=8080)
    client.authenticate(login, password)

    extractor = ClientMetadataExtractor(client, path, itemId)
    extractor.extractMetadata()

The user authenticating with ``login`` and ``password`` must have ``WRITE``
access to the file located at ``itemId`` on the server.


OAuth Login
-----------

This plugin allows users to log in using OAuth against a set of supported providers,
rather than storing their credentials in the Girder instance. Specific instructions
for each provider can be found below.

Google
******

On the plugin configuration page, you must enter a **Client ID** and **Client secret**.
Those values can be created in the Google Developer Console, in the **APIS & AUTH** >
**Credentials** section. When you create a new Client ID, you must enter the
``AUTHORIZED_JAVASCRIPT_ORIGINS`` and ``AUTHORIZED_REDIRECT_URI`` fields. These *must*
point back to your Girder instance. For example, if your Girder instance is hosted
at ``https://my.girder.com``, then you should specify the following values: ::

    AUTHORIZED_JAVASCRIPT_ORIGINS: https://my.girder.com
    AUTHORIZED_REDIRECT_URI: https://my.girder.com/api/v1/oauth/google/callback

After successfully creating the Client ID, copy and paste the client ID and client
secret values into the plugin's configuration page, and hit **Save**. Users should
then be able to log in with their Google account when they click the log in page
and select the option to log in with Google.


Curation
--------

This plugin adds curation functionality to Girder, allowing content to be
assembled and approved prior to publication. Admin users can activate curation
for any folder, and users who are then granted permission can compose content
under that folder. The users can request publication of the content when it is
ready, which admins may approve or reject. The plugin provides a UI along with
workflow management, notification, and permission support for these actions.

The standard curation workflow works as follows, with any operations affecting
privacy or permissions being applied to the folder and all of its descendent
folders.

- Site admins can enable curation for any folder, which changes the folder to
  Private.
- Users with write access can populate the folder with data.
- When ready, a user can request approval from the admin. The folder becomes
  read-only at this point for any user or group with write access, to avoid
  further changes being made while the admin is reviewing.
- The admin can approve or reject the folder contents.
- If approved, the folder becomes Public.
- If rejected, the folder becomes writeable again by any user or group with read
  access, enabling users to make changes and resubmit for approval.

The curation dialog is accessible from the Folder actions menu and shows the
following information.

- Whether curation is enabled or disabled for the folder.
- The current curation status: construction, requested, or approved.
- A timeline of status changes, who performed them and when.
- Context-dependent action buttons to perform state transitions.


Provenance Tracker
------------------

The provenance tracker plugin logs changes to items and to any other resources
that have been configured in the plugin settings.  Each change record includes
a version number, the old and new values of any changed information, the ID of
the user that made the change, the current date and time, and the type of
change that occurred.

API
***

Each resource that has provenance tracking has a rest endpoint of the form
``(resource)/{id}/provenance``.  For instance, item metadata is accessible at
``item/{id}/provenance``.  Without any other parameter, the most recent change
is reported.

The ``version`` parameter can be used to get any or all provenance information
for a resource.  Every provenance record has a version number.  For each
resource, these versions start at 1.  If a positive number is specified for
``version``, the provenance record with the matching version is returned.  If a
negative number is specified, the index is relative to the end of the list of
provenance records.  That is, -1 is the most recent change, -2 the second most
recent, etc.  A ``version`` of ``all`` returns a list of all provenance records
for the resource.

All provenance records include ``version``, ``eventType`` (see below), and
``eventTime``.  If the user who authorized the action is known, their ID is
stored in ``eventUser``.

Provenance event types include:

- ``creation``: the resource was created.

- ``unknownHistory``: the resource was created when the provenance plugin was
  disabled.  Prior to this time, there is no provenance information.

- ``update``: data, metadata, or plugin-related data has changed for the
  resource.  The old values and new values of the data are recorded.  The
  ``old``  parameter contains any value that was changed (the value prior to
  the change) or has been deleted.  The ``new`` parameter contains any value
  that was changed or has been added.

- ``copy``: the resource was copied.  The original resource's provenance is
  copied to the new record, and the ``originalId`` indicates which record was
  used.

For item records, when a file belonging to that item is added, removed, or
updated, the provenance is updated with that change.  This provenance includes
a ``file`` list with the changed file(s).  Each entry in this list includes a
``fileId`` for the associated file and one of these event types:

- ``fileAdded``: a file was added to the item.  The ``new`` parameter has a
  summary of the file information, including its assetstore ID and value used
  to reference it within that assetstore.

- ``fileUpdate``: a file's name or other data has changed, or the contents of
  the file were replaced.  The ``new`` and ``old`` parameters contain the data
  values that were modified, deleted, or added.

- ``fileRemoved``: a file was removed from the item.  The ``old`` parameter has
  a summary of the file information.  If this was the only item using this file
  data, the file is removed from the assetstore.

Gravatar Portraits
------------------

This lightweight plugin makes all users' Gravatar image URLs available for use
in clients. When enabled, user documents sent through the REST API will contain
a new field ``gravatar_baseUrl`` if the value has been computed. If that field
is not set on the user document, instead use the URL ``/user/:id/gravatar`` under
the Girder API, which will compute and store the correct Gravatar URL, and then
redirect to it. The next time that user document is sent over the REST API,
it should contain the computed ``gravatar_baseUrl`` field.

Javascript clients
******************

The Gravatar plugin's javascript code extends the Girder web client's ``girder.models.UserModel``
by adding the ``getGravatarUrl(size)`` method that adheres to the above behavior
internally. You can use it on any user model with the ``_id`` field set, as in the following example:

.. code-block:: javascript

    if (girder.currentUser) {
        this.$('div.gravatar-portrait').css(
            'background-image', 'url(' +
            girder.currentUser.getGravatarUrl(36) + ')');
    }

.. note:: Gravatar images are always square; the ``size`` parameter refers to
   the side length of the desired image in pixels.

HDFS Assetstore
---------------

This plugin creates a new type of assetstore that can be used to store and
proxy data on a Hadoop Distributed Filesystem. An HDFS assetstore can be used
to import existing HDFS data hierarchies into the Girder data hierarchy, and
it can also serve as a normal assetstore that stores and manages files created
via Girder's interface.

.. note:: Deleting files that were imported from existing HDFS files does not
  delete the original file from HDFS, they will simply be unlinked in the
  Girder hierarchy.

Once you enable the plugin, site administrators will be able to create and edit
HDFS assetstores on the ``Assetstores`` page in the web client in the same way
as any other assetstore type. When creating or editing an assetstore, validation
is performed to ensure that the HDFS instance is reachable for communication, and
that the directory specified as the root path exists. If it does not exist, Girder
will attempt to create it.

Importing data
**************

Once you have created an HDFS assetstore, you will be able to import data
into it on demand if you have site administrator privileges. In the assetstore
list in the web client, you will see an **Import** button next to your HDFS
assetstores that will allow you to import files or directories (recursively)
from that HDFS instance into a Girder user, collection, or folder of your choice.

You should specify an absolute data path when importing; the root path that you
chose for your assetstore is not used in the import process. Each directory
imported will become a folder in Girder, and each file will become an item with
a single file inside. Once imported, file data is proxied through Girder when
being downloaded, but still must reside in the same location on HDFS.

Duplicates (that is, pre-existing files with the same name in the same location
in the Girder hierarchy) will be ignored if, for instance, you import the same
hierarchy into the same location twice in a row.

Remote Worker
-------------

This plugin should be enabled if you want to use the Girder worker distributed
processing engine to execute batch jobs initiated by the server. This is useful
for deploying service architectures that involve both data management and
scalable offline processing. This plugin provides utilities for sending generic tasks
to worker nodes for execution. The worker itself uses
`celery <http://www.celeryproject.org/>`_ to manage the distribution of tasks,
and builds in some useful Girder integrations on top of celery. Namely,

* **Data management**: This plugin provides python functions for building task
  input and output specs that refer to data stored on the Girder server, making
  it easy to run processing on specific folders, items, or files. The worker itself
  knows how to authenticate and download data from the server, and upload results
  back to it.
* **Job management**: This plugin depends on the :ref:`Jobs plugin <jobsplugin>`.
  Tasks are specified as python dictionaries inside of a job document and then
  scheduled via celery. The worker automatically updates the status of jobs
  as they are received and executed so that they can be monitored via the jobs
  UI in real time. If the script prints any logging information, it is automatically
  collected in the job log on the server, and if the script raises an exception,
  the job status is automatically set to an error state.
